## About the motivations behind City Game
At the time of writing (2023-08-08) I have 35 years of experience as a human. Of those years, I'd say only the last 15 are of conscious being. My understanding of the world and its people has not been always very good. I still struggle to understand lots of behaviours in the spectrum of life. I've been always attracted by statistics, accumulative data, Spanish costumbrismo, historical archives, architecture, human behaviour, long-term planning and multi-generation efforts. I don't have all the answers yet. I'm not sure what the questions are, either. I'm an spectator of life. I've always thought of programming as an art: Type arcane words of power into the machine, and see them unravel on complex and beautiful behaviours. If you did your maths right, those behaviours will mimic your theoretical understanding. But, you can waltz only so far on your mind. The bigger and the more complex an algorithm gets, the harder it is to just "run" it on your head.

City Game started as a project to copy a vertical slice of the world, using the most accurate data, the most current statistics. A sandbox devoid of any opinion. Just a simulator with fine-tuned starting conditions resembling our world.

I happen to have been recreating the world that surrounds me since childhood, one piece at a time, with as much complexity as I felt comfortable to add at a given moment. I feel more capable now. I've been reading books about architecture and urbanism. Lots of scifi. I've been reading essays about the human nature. I've been observing the commonalities of human existence around the world. I've been talking with my partner and friends about every small thing that happened to each of us. And about the quirks of human nature. I've been standing in line at the grocery store. Quietly listening to people talking to each other. I've become really interested on the future of Earth and its inhabitants. I've lost myself while putting my son to sleep. I think I have some of the answers now. My answers, at least. And some questions.

City Game tries to exemplify those questions and those answers. City Game is not depicting our society as is, but how it could be. How it could have been. City Game wants to shine a light on the best we can achieve working together. Thinking of each other. Respecting all life. Being humble.
The island is an example of an isolated world, a miniature society, where everything must be kept in balance -today, and tomorrow- so as to not decline. Resources. Energy. Food. Population. Culture. Foreign relations. On such a small piece of land, every mistake condemns us all. Every good deed goes around, keeps around. City Game shows us better infrastructure, less, if possible. Better housing. Better waste management. Better energy generation, transport and consumption. Better transport.

Some will say most of this is not an act of creation, but mimicry. I'm ok with that. If this game happens, if this piece of software mimics something good enough to spark some thoughts about the real thing, that's awesome. If this game outlines something in its total abscence, that's awesome. Some things get noticed when they are not. If people picks up this game and ask themselves why their world does not resemble this or that they have just seen depicted as common, that's good.


For development logs, see [Journal](Journal.md)
